#Maven

  Maven provides a comprehensive approach to managing s/w projects.From Compilation,to documentation,to team collaboration,**Maven** provides
  the necessary abstractions that encourage reuse & take much of the work out of project builds.**Maven** provides developers to manage the following things:Builds,Documentation,Reporting,Dependencies,SCM's,Releases.It provides a useful abstraction for buiding a s/w.
  
  
  **Maven's POM**:
  
  Everything in Maven is driven in a **Declarative** fashion using POM & specifically,the plugin configurations contained in the POM.*POM contains the following key elements*:
  
  **Project**- This is the top-level element in all Maven pom.xml files.
  
  **modelVersion**- This required element indicates the version of the object model that the POM is using.
  
  **groupId**- This element indicates the unique identifier of the org. or group that created the project & its based on the fully qualified domain name of your organization. For ex,org.apache.maven.plugins.
  
  **artifactId**- This element indicates the unique base name of the primary artifact being generated by the project.
  
  **packaging**- This element indicates the package type to be used by this artifact(**JAR,WAR,EAR**).
  
  **version**- This element indicates the version of the artifact generated by the Project.
  
  **name**- It indicates the display name used for the project.This is often used in *Maven's*  generated documentation.
  
  **url**- It Indicates where the project's site can be found.
  
  **description**- This element provides a basic description of your project.
  
  **Maven Repositories**:
  
  *Local Repository*- Maven local repo. is a folder location on your machine.It gets created when you run any maven command for the first time.It keeps your project's all dependencies(library jars,plugin jars etc).When you run **Maven build**,then maven automatically downloads all the dependency jars into the local repo.
  
  
  *Central Repository*- This repo. is provided by the maven Community.It contains a large no. of commonly used libraries.When **Maven** does not find any dependency in local repo,it starts searching in central repo. using following **URL:http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/**.
  
  
  *Remote Repoaitory*- Sometimes **Maven** does not find a mentioned dependency in central repo. as well then it stops build process & outputs error msg to console,to prevent such situation **Maven** provides concept of **Remote Repository** which is developers own custom repo. containing required libraries or other project jars.
  
  